.\"
.\" smixer.1 - a simple interface to /dev/mixer
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2000 David Johnson
.\"
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\" the Free Software Foundation; either version 2, or (at your option)
.\" any later version.
.\"
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\" along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software
.\" Foundation, 59 Temple Place - Suite 330, Boston, MA 02111-1307, USA. */
.TH SMIXER 1 "v1.0.3 - 2003-06-09" "smixer"
.SH NAME
smixer \- a simple interface to /dev/mixer
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
smixer [-a] -p           (print settings)
smixer [-a] --set [file] (set settings from file or stdin)
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
smixer is a command-line and scriptable program to control and display
the mixer volume levels on a sound card in linux. smixer is ideal
for setting mixer settings on startup or to switch between multiple
configurations quickly.
.SH OPTIONS
smixer may be invoked with the following command-line options:
.TP
.B -a
When printing current settings include all devices.
.TP
.B -p
Print out the current mixer settings, then exit.
.TP
.B --set \fIfile\fP
Process commands from
.I file,
then exit.
.TP
.B --set
Process commands from stdin (interactive or from a pipe), then exit.
.PP

.SH
Command Synopsis
These commands can be issued through an input file or from stdin when smixer is started in the
.B --set
mode

.TP
.B show
Print out the current mixer settings.  This is equivilant to running 
smixer with the 
.B -p
argument.

.TP
.B vol \fIname\fP \fIvalue\fP
Set the volume for a specific input or output device.
.I name
is the name of the device as shown in the
.B show
command.
.I value
is the percent volume to set or ``-'' to decrease 5% or ``+'' to increase
5%

.TP
.B recsrc \fIname\fP
Set the recording source to a specific input device.
.I name
is the name of an input device as shown in the
.B show
command.  Only sources that are capable of input can be set.

.TP
.B help
Print out a short description of the commands

.TP
.B quit
End command processing and exit the program.

.SH
Example Commands

.TP
vol Vol 70
Sets the master volume to 70%
.TP
vol CD 0
Sets the CD input volume to 0%
.TP
vol pcm +
Increases the pcm volume 5%
.TP
recsrc Mic
Sets the recording source to the Mic input device

.SH
Example Output

.PP
 $ smixer -p
 ID: Name       Act  Rec  Channels     Volume
 --  --------   ---- ---- -------- ----------
  0: Vol        Yes  Yes  Stereo   25700 100%
  1: Bass       Yes       Stereo   12850  50%
  2: Trebl      Yes       Stereo   12850  50%
  4: Pcm        Yes  Yes  Stereo   22616  88%
  5: Spkr       Yes       Mono         0   0%
  6: Line       Yes  Yes  Stereo       0   0%
  7: Mic        Yes  Yes* Mono         0   0%
  8: CD         Yes  Yes  Stereo       0   0%
 11: Rec        Yes       Stereo       0   0%
 13: OGain      Yes  Yes  Stereo    1285   5%
 14: Line1      Yes  Yes  Stereo       0   0%
 15: Line2      Yes       Stereo   25700 100%
 16: Line3      Yes       Stereo   25700 100%
 17: Digital1   Yes       Stereo       0   0%
 18: Digital2   Yes       Stereo   25700 100%
 20: PhoneIn    Yes  Yes  Mono         0   0%
 24: Monitor         Yes  Mono         0   0%


.SH
BUGS
.PP
E-mail bug reports to
.BR smixer@centerclick.org .
smixer has been tested on several linux systems and might work
in other OSS supported OS's aswell. Newer versions can be obtained from
.BR http://centerclick.org/programs/smixer/
